That's my cue.
Welcome, everybody.
Thanks for coming.
It must have been the LLVM session before
us that really brought you into the room,
and you're just hanging out for this.
Hopefully, you're here for building
iAds with iAd Producer.
My name is Mark Malone,
and I'm part of the iAd team.
And I've got some pretty
exciting stuff to show you today.
I'm really proud to be the one up here
on stage to be showing you this tool.
There's a lot of power
within iAd Producer,
and it does a lot of things for you.
And it was released in
December of last year,
and this is the first opportunity
that we've been able to be on stage at
WWDC to actually show off the product.
And so, brief agenda of what
I'm going to go through.
First, I've got a couple different videos
that I took of a couple ads that
are out there just to give you
a feel for the iAd experience.
And then we're going to dive into
the tool and talk about sort of
the code-free design techniques
that the tool really affords you.
The ability to get in and use high-level
objects to build a lot of functionality,
a lot of creativity
without a lot of work.
And then, of course,
there's programmers in the room,
hopefully, going beyond that,
going beyond sort of the drag
and drop and instantiation of
objects that are created for you.
How to take it the next step
is something that's a big
part of iAd Producer as well.
It's not just templates.
It's also going beyond that.
And then finally,
how to share your ad with other folks.
Once you create an ad,
you want to stick it on a device
or send it to your customers.
There's ways that you can share
them using the tool and outside
of the tool that I'm going
to walk you through as well.
So let's get going with just a quick
overview of the iAd experience.
This one's pretty clever.
It's one of the earlier ones that
was created with iAd Producer,
and it's for Guinness.
And it uses a nice chalkboard
background like you'd find in a pub.
And it's got four different options
that you can go in and navigate.
And the first one is the ability to
go and download the Pub Finder app
from Guinness right within the ad.
And so that's pretty sweet,
not having to exit out of the ad in
order to download this particular
application on your devices.
Like one of those great features.
It also has this challenge game in
that you can question and answer sort
of if you do the questions right,
then you get a surprise at the end.
And it's got this pour
capability within it as well,
which is sort of you swipe
through the various steps of
pouring your Guinness beer,
which is extremely important.
To get it right,
you've got to have the right glass.
You have to have the
glass at the right tilt.
And you need to pull the tap with
just the right velocity so that you
can get that beer with the foamy
head that you love at the end.
And that's what this ad is here.
And the way that you go between these
steps is by swiping your fingers across.
And there's also some arrows
that they put up there to
give you a visual way to say,
"Ah, okay,
if I go and tap on these arrows,
that's another way that I can go and
navigate it." It's got another cool
feature that you'll see in a lot of iAds,
especially ones with rich content above
and beyond just sort of the brand itself.
A lot of folks have imagery that they
want to offer up to the customers,
people that are viewing these
ads and have them set their home
screen and those types of things.
And so,
this is a great way to go and get the
brand front and center on the device
for the home screen and the lock screen.
And again,
setting that as staying within the ad,
staying within the developer
application as well.
And so,
that's an example of an iPhone ad.
And here's one that
just released this week.
This is for Falling Skies.
And it's a series that's
going to start up in June.
And this is an iPad ad.
And the nice thing about it is
it's really taking advantage of the
large landscape afforded on an iPad.
And so, they've got these data or
image wells lined up there.
And you can tap on each one
of the wells and watch a
preview of the upcoming season.
And so, they've really put in a
lot of exciting content.
And this is showing video in line,
which is sweet.
It's not going full screen and
taking over the entire page.
And so, that's sort of making use of some
really nice HTML5 whizziness to
create a really great experience.
And they also have some
stills in here as well.
So, some stills from some of the scenes.
When they were shooting,
they've captured those
through them in here.
And so, you can resize them in
the same sort of thing.
Save them as backdrops or lock screens,
those types of things.
So, those are a couple examples.
I'll talk through sort of the
features and how you can go and
add that within an iAd for sort
of the rest of the progression.
Sort of the killer feature that's
remaining in this particular ad is the
fact that this particular movie series
has a release date associated with it.
And we've exposed the calendar
APIs to folks who have gone and
built iAds so that they can go
and add an event directly to the
user's calendar from within the ad.
So, that's particularly sweet in this
particular circumstance because
this season has a start date.
And if the user wants to
add it to their calendar,
they can do it right from within the ad.
And boom, it's on their calendar.
It's going to get synced wherever
their calendar events go.
So, that's pretty nice as well.
[Transcript missing]
So this is an iAd Producer project and
the typical way that you'll go through
and create one of these projects,
create your iAd,
is basically beginning from some sort
of design effort where you're comping
up what you think should be the creative
vision for your particular customer.
And then there's typically a development
stage where you hand it off to somebody
to add some nuance perhaps to go sort
of beyond sort of what's built in.
And then there's this
deploy capability where,
okay, now let's go put it on a device,
put it out there where
other people can find it,
put it where our customers can review it,
and that sort of stuff.
And so that's the way I'm going to
divide the rest of this presentation
up into these three buckets.
And I'll start with design.
So at the get-go,
if you haven't seen iAd Producer,
this is what it looks like,
especially when you first launch it.
It provides a widescreen
bird's-eye view of the overall ad.
And it shows proxies for all
of the pages from the band.
It shows the banner all the
way to the leaf pages that
you've created for your ad.
And it does it for
iPad as well as iPhone,
any iOS device you could create
in iAd with this tool within it.
And don't let sort of the orientation
of the objects on the screen fool you.
I mean,
you're always going to have a banner and
some sort of splash while your ad loads.
But how you arrange the leaf
pages over on the right-hand side,
whether you have a menu
with a bunch of leafs,
sort of the hub-and-spoke model,
or you decide to go right to one page,
and then sort of sequentially
go through those pages,
you can really design
your ad any way you want.
This is sort of the template
that we use for most ads that
you'll see out there on the wall.
But the reality is you can arrange
the pages in any sort of fashion
and navigate them the way you wish.
So let's go ahead and start with the ad.
As a designer,
when you're in design mode,
you're choosing objects from
a palette of built-in objects.
The fact that I'm in the context of
a particular page here will drive
the objects that are there for me.
And there's things like
text fields and labels,
as you would expect,
but there's really a lot of
high-level functionality that's
in this object palette as well.
So you can throw a scroll view on there,
sure, that's pretty straightforward,
but you can also put a
carousel on your page.
And dropping the carousel
on there instantiates one,
and it also adds all the
functionality to it as well.
So you get the visual capability
of a carousel as well as
all that interactivity.
And that's all hooked up just
by using these various objects,
and I'll demo that in just a second.
And when you're in design mode,
it's all about not writing code.
So you go and you grab from
your object's palettes,
you lay these items out on a screen,
and then the way that you
go and you style them is
through a property inspector.
For a selected item,
you can go and twiddle some items.
Over on the right-hand side,
use rotators or a slider,
maybe type a little text
into a particular field.
But it's all about at this stage
when you're in design mode,
not writing any code.
Just selecting objects,
setting various properties,
and then moving on to the next step.
And the same thing is true
for animation as well.
We've got built-in animation,
so you can select an item and say, "Okay,
for this particular item,
I want it to move on the screen in
this sort of way." And we'll take
care of generating all the required
actions in order to make that
animation happen when the ad is done.
So again, the goal is to make it
code-free at this step.
You're in design mode,
and it's pretty straightforward to go
and add a lot of functionality just by
setting bits and not writing any code.
We also keep all of the assets
associated with an ad there within the
project over on the right-hand side.
So if you've got images
that you've brought in,
you just drag, drop them onto the canvas,
light them up however you want,
style them.
All of the assets are kept
over on the right-hand side.
They're delivered with the project.
But they're also small.
And they're smart enough to
know that they might have come
from a folder on a server,
for example.
And so when they change, perhaps,
out on the server from
FPOR to the real deal,
there'll be an indication over
on the right-hand side that,
"Oh, there's a new version of
that image available."
And then you can re-import it.
So it's really nice.
It creates a self-contained
unit that contains all of the
assets associated with it.
And then finally,
the way to go and experience on the
device is there's the ability to share.
And so as long as I have an
iPhone that's on the same
Wi-Fi network with the laptop,
or the workstation that
I'm building this ad,
I can launch the iAdTester on my
iPhone and experience the ad as
it is built and running within
the iAdProducer application.
And so I'll show that
in a second as well.
You launch iAdTester,
you'll see the machine that's got it,
and you can choose from
the various banners.
You launch it, and you can really
experience it on the device.
This is great because it means
you can go back and do some subtle
tweaks over in the interface,
go back to iAdTester, pull it up,
look at it, it's like, "Ah, yeah,
that's the way I wanted it to look."
So that's sort of a killer feature from
an experience and refinement perspective.
So with that,
what I figured I'd do is get out of
slides and have some fun with a demo.
So right now I'm in the iOS simulator,
and I've got iAdTester launched.
iAdTester is installed automatically
by iAdProducer when you first
launch one of the ads that you're
building within iAdProducer.
And you can see that I've got this
one particular ad that I've embedded
within the tester so that I can show
you what we're going to go and create.
And so this is the Hudson Telegraph demo.
You'll see this in the next rev of the
tool that'll be included in the extras
directory when you download the image.
And it's sort of this steampunk
sort of ad that tells you that,
you know, sending a telegraph is really
the most modern way to go and
send a message across the USA.
So it's clearly got
some convincing to do.
But you saw that when it loaded,
it had this nice little animation
in of the text at the bottom.
That letter flew in.
And if I go into it,
you'll see this drop-down
animation that's provided
there and then three buttons.
There's this image here.
If I hit history and rotate the device,
then here's an ad that's got a
bunch of different little sort
of pieces of content in there.
Sort of tells the story of the
Hudson Telegraph over time.
And I can interact with this
just by moving across the screen.
And then it has a locations
and a try it capability.
The locations allows you to
basically find where the local
telegraphs are in your area.
So you can go and send out that great
telegraph that you want to send to
get your message across the USA.
And there's this little try it bucket
here where I can go and type some text
and have it converted to Morse code,
which is incredibly useful as well.
[Transcript missing]
So at the get-go,
the first thing it asks you is
what kind of ad you want to create.
Do you want to create one
for iPod Touch or iPhone,
or do you want to create one for an iPad?
And we're going to
recreate that Hudson one,
so we're going with the iPhone.
And right away,
you get that bird's-eye view.
And we haven't done anything here yet.
We haven't laid out any
content or anything.
And so it's got basically the
standard hub-and-spoke template,
as I said.
But, of course, you can go and change it.
But it's sort of laid out
with these placeholders.
It says, "Hey, let's go build an ad.
Here's some places where
you can drop some things."
If I double-tap into one of these
pages or double-click to go into them,
you'll see that the first thing you
see is a series of templates that can
be the starting points for the banner.
I double-clicked on a banner,
so it's bringing up banner templates.
If I double-click within
one of the other leaf pages,
then it'll provide
templates for that as well.
And so there's things like
image text or dynamic text.
It's got a text widget that does
some cool animation automatically.
There's one that's just a pure image.
And of course,
you can create one that's blank as well,
and that's the one that
I'm going to choose.
You don't have to pick a template.
It's just blank.
And once you choose a template
or a placeholder for this
particular page that I'm on,
here's the banner,
it'll create this little
proxy of what it looks like.
And it's a blank banner.
It doesn't have any content on it,
so naturally, it's going to look fairly
uninteresting and blank.
But now,
the next time I double-pump to go
in and take a look at this banner,
it pulls me into sort
of the drill-down view.
Once I'm in this view,
I can start dragging elements on.
And I can start building my banner.
You'll notice over here
on the left-hand side,
there's this gutter.
The gutter allows me to go
and create multiple banners.
You're going to have multiple banners
any time that you create an ad.
And typically have a banner that's
specific to sort of the targeting
model that you might be using.
You might have one banner that
targets one kind of individual
that draws them into the ad.
Well, you're going to go and create
a banner for each one of those.
And they'll show up
along the left-hand side,
but the sample,
I'm just going to run through
and create one quickly.
And so you can hide this,
get a little more real estate.
There's this view option up
here where I can go to 100%
and see 100% of the pixels.
Really give me a lot more real
estate to play around with.
And there's some buttons along
the right-hand bottom side that
I can go and take a look at.
And one of the things,
since I've got the banner selected here,
is it tells me that, you know,
I'm on this particular banner.
It's got a name of blank,
and I can change it,
give it some name that will
show up in the rest of the UI.
Maybe I'll call it the right thing.
banner.
And I can do something to the banner
right here without dragging any
assets and mainly it's going and
setting the background properties
of this particular banner.
And so we've built in the ability to
go and set gradients as a background
so you can go and choose a color,
drop it in, and drag the sliders around,
right?
Get simple gradients going in there.
I can create one that's
linear just by swapping it,
change where the light source is
or where the gradient comes from.
I can actually go and add multiple
points as well and create something
that's relatively hideous or attractive.
But, you know,
this is how easy it is to go and
set a gradient as a background.
Gradients are key backgrounds especially
because they're very lightweight.
It's not using images and we
do all the work of actually
applying the gradient at runtime.
There are other options in here.
I can go and have an
image as a background.
I can choose a standard color from
a color picker as the background.
You get what I'm talking about.
Pretty straightforward.
I can even have something with none.
Now I'm going to go and pull some
assets in to go and build this ad.
And so what I'll do is I'll
click on the assets button over
on the lower right hand side.
And as you can see I don't have
any assets associated with this ad,
but we're assuming that you've got
some production capability within your
organization that has either already
created some web assets or somebody's
cutting things out of Photoshop files.
Once you get those,
they're ready to go and drop into
iAd Producer and use them to go
and build out the ad experience.
So I just went and
dragged that folder there.
Again, if I had a server volume mounted,
I could point to it and just
import through the import assets
menu as well and point to it.
And you'll see that we pull
in all of the assets that are
sitting within this directory
and organize them alphabetically.
You can go in and type things like,
let me pull back all the
files that start with J.
Or I can actually do it by type as
well by using the little gear here.
Just show me those
images that are in here.
Very selectors here in order
to go and pull back things
that I've already created.
Very selectors here in order
to go and pull back things
that I've already created.
Once you get those,
you can go and drag them
into your iAd Producer.
And you can go and drag
them into your iAd Producer.
in order to go in and pull
back things that I want.
and filter it however I want.
Make it go show all.
And you'll also notice that up
here at the top it's got the
name of the image that I've
selected as I scroll around here.
But it also has these
two size indicators.
What we expect when you drag assets
into iEdProducer is that you're
giving us the retina display artwork.
So we're expecting the full size display.
And then what we'll do if you
haven't provided the half resolution
or the standard display is
actually take your high res art and
convert it to the standard display.
And so with one image we'll automatically
generate that lower resolution display.
Now that doesn't mean that you're
stuck with the one that we created.
Maybe it's a fine line that when we go
and compress it in order to get the other
resolution it sort of loses its fidelity.
You can always right mouse click on
the file and be able to go and swap
out that one X rendition that we
created and pull in your own one.
And this is how you would go and
swap out different files as well.
[Transcript missing]
And then I'm going to go and
drop a couple more objects.
And I showed you in the slides
the objects menu has a series of
things that are just grabbable
right out of the palette and
droppable right onto the page.
Depending on the context that you're in,
I'm in a banner context,
then this list is going to be
filtered down to things that
are appropriate for a banner.
And so one of them is a label.
And so I'm going to recreate
that Hudson Telegraph fly-in
text using a couple labels here.
I've got a label selected.
If I go back to the inspector,
you'll see that it's changed based on
the fact that I've got a label selected,
and I can go and change
the name of that label.
I can play around with its sizing
using the metrics inspector.
I also have style capability.
I can play around with the text as well.
And so that's pretty hard to see there,
so I'm going to select it and actually
choose some white text so that it's
the color that shows up best here.
Great, that's my label.
I can also change the font here.
I've got a font picker.
The fonts that are here in the
dropdown are the ones that are
guaranteed to be on the device.
You might have a slew of
fonts on your workstation,
but these will only show up the ones
that you either imported into the project
as SVG fonts for custom fonts or that
are guaranteed to be on the device.
So it's filtered down for you.
And the Cochin font is the
one that the sample uses,
so I'll go and use that font.
I'm going to want to add a
little bit of shadow so that that
text sticks out a little bit.
And it said the Hudson.
And to the graph.
Go ahead and give it
a little style there.
"Judge it out so I can see the thing,
maybe do a little left alignment,
shrinky dink down a little bit."
Pretty straightforward.
It had another piece that flew
in from the right-hand side,
so I'm just going to
go and copy and paste.
Another because I want to preserve
that same style for this one
and that was the fastest way to
Send... Send a message across the USA.
Fonts preserved.
Let's go and shrink
that down a little bit.
Field down so I don't have to select it.
Sort of line it up.
You'll see that we've got the
alignment line showing up so I can
get everything perfectly aligned.
But I can also go into the metrics and
do accurate pixel alignment as well.
So those are my two little pieces of
text that I want to have in this banner.
I also had this letter that flew in
as part of the animation when the
banner showed up on the device and so
I've got this little letter PNG here.
I'm just gonna go and
drop it right on there.
So that's great.
I've went and I've built up this banner.
I can say whatever I want.
I can pull in whatever images I want.
I can set the background.
You get the story.
It's pretty straightforward
and easy to go.
Now these items were animated in when the
banner was first shown within the tester.
And so next we want to go and add
the animation and we do that within
the animation properties panel.
And you just basically go
and choose the various,
choose from the palette of various
built-in animations that we've got.
There's an ability to set timing
functions for them as well as duration,
how long a particular animation should
last and when another one should begin.
This little flag or the little
letter flew in and rotated.
I think I'm gonna want it to come
in last so I'm gonna bump it up to
be a second from a time perspective.
And then these two guys I want to
have fly in from the left hand side,
that one, and have it fly in right away.
And then maybe have this one come
in from the right hand side and have
it come in just a wee bit later.
And you can see there's different
timing functions that are built
in that you're probably used to
if you're using animation in any
sort of web technology field.
So that's it, simple banner,
straightforward to go and create.
I can hit the simulator here,
bring it up.
It'll go and export the ad as a file,
hand it off to iAd tester,
and it should show up,
unless the demo gods are not with me.
Create ad.
Make sure you're using the right version.
Hit simulate.
Great.
So there's our little animation
and the little fly-in.
Awesome.
So piece of cake.
Easy to create banner.
But you'll notice when I go
and I rotate the device,
It needs to support the
rotated model as well.
When you build in a banner for iAd,
it's really just one banner.
It needs to support both orientations and
of course the tool supports that as well.
So let me put this back where I found it.
go back into the tool and this little
arrow that you see up at the top
right hand side shows you what that
rotated orientation would look like,
so stretch things out a little bit,
now I can go and look
at it in landscape mode,
go and resize things,
move them around a little bit so they
look right for this particular screen,
maybe I'll put this here
and center that there,
and this is a little bit too big so I'm
going to go and change the size so it
can fit right there where I want it,
and you'll see that it preserves
the changes between the two
different banner orientations,
and now when I go and simulate it,
"It brings it in,
go and rotate the device,
it does the right thing
for the banner as well.
So that's great.
So it's code-free creation of banners."
Great, that's the banner.
Let me go ahead and create a couple
more pages real quick just to lay
out a little bit more of the ad.
We're not going to have
a splash page in this,
but we are going to have a menu
and a couple children pages.
So when I double-click on the menu page,
it again brings me down
the template choice.
I've got a series of templates
that I can go and pick from,
one that's blank, of course.
You can always start from
scratch and just drag objects on.
There's this wipe clear one from the
Klondike and the Campbell Soup ad.
If you've seen those,
then we've built that into
a template that you can use.
A couple button ones,
and I'm going to use this little
button ones here to go and add
the rest of the functionality.
It goes,
creates a proxy for that menu page.
When I double-click, it brings it up,
and you'll see it's got all these
placeholders basically ready for me to
go and do something interesting with.
Now, anytime you see this little
mountain with sun there,
that's an image well.
It means you can drag
and drop an image there.
As you saw within the banner,
I was able to just grab an image
and drop it anywhere on a page.
You can still always do that,
but this is just a
nicety to indicate that,
hey, this is a place that you
can go and drop images.
So I'm going to go and grab my teletype
and throw it there in my telegraph.
I can do a line.
You see the little alignments.
And I've got this little grouping
of buttons that you'll see here.
This is the grouping
that's sort of attached.
They move together.
It's because this grouping has
some smarts associated with it.
This button collection is actually
connected programmatically
to those other child buttons.
And it's connected to those
other child pages that I have
over on the right-hand side.
And so as I go and add more child pages,
this particular grouping will
automatically update to have a button
for each subsequent page that I add.
So it's just a real nicety
for making things easy to go
and go the next step with.
And so if I double-click to go
into this particular container,
that's when I can select a button.
And if I go over to the inspector,
you can see that buttons already
have some default functionality.
I can tell it to go to any
particular page that I want.
What I wanted to do though is go and
style this to look like it should for
the demo that I showed you earlier.
So I'm going to use this Seminary font.
The Seminary font is an SVG font that
was part of the project that I imported.
So it's a custom font
associated with this brand.
And maybe I'll make it
a little bit bigger.
And because this is in a collection,
it means that like items can be treated
sort of the same within this grouping.
And so you'll see that there's this apply
style to all buttons option that's there.
This container is smart.
It knows that there's
multiple buttons in here.
And so if I go and hit
apply style to all buttons,
boom, my font is changed across all
of the buttons that are there.
There's another way that
I can remember styles as well
and use them in other places,
not just within a container.
I've got this little
style drop-down here,
and I can go and define this
button style that I have here
as something that's custom.
Give it a name, maybe call it button.
[Transcript missing]
Going back to the overview,
it's updated the proxy so it looks right.
Let's go and create this page.
Now, this page was that history page.
It was a landscape page and it
had this flow view within it,
a bunch of images that move side to side.
So that's the one I'm going to pick here.
Go ahead and hit choose.
And it's created the proxy here.
Of course,
it has no content because it was
really just a blank landscape view.
But you'll see it created that little
back button for me automatically.
That's built into even the blank
template as well so that you
don't have to worry about that.
Now, something else that I can do here,
I'm still out at the project level,
is without anything selected,
I can go and I can set the background
properties of all of the pages.
And actually,
all of the subsequent pages are set
automatically if I go and set the
background at sort of this project level.
And so this particular page has an
image background and I'm going to go and
choose the background landscape for it.
Hi, I'm Mark Malone,
the founder of iAd Producer,
and I'm going to show you how to create
a dashboard for your iAd Producer.
create that little history component.
So first thing I've got is this
button here and I want it to look like
the rest of my buttons so I created
that style over the other page.
So I'm going to go choose button
and voila it's got the right font.
If I had a shadow or other
styles associated with it I would
have gotten that right away.
If I go and update that style,
that button style any time within
any of the pages I can effectively
make that style get applied to
all of the elements that use it as
well just by resaving the style.
So all the elements that use
that style with that name will
automatically have it applied.
Now that I'm on a full screen page versus
the banner you'll see that the objects
that are available to me have changed.
I've got more options available to me
and things like high level scroll views
and carousels and gallery views and
flip views all sorts of things in here.
A shake view there's that wipe
clear thing I can also have
on any child pages I want.
I can go and drop a video element.
What I'm going to use
here is the gallery view.
The gallery view is one of the
sort of standard iOS device user
experience elements that you've
probably seen where you just basically
swipe and page through content.
The Guinness ad actually used that
for swiping through the various
steps of going and pouring your beer.
So you can go and sort of resize
it so that it looks good on here.
Sort of move things around,
position them where you want.
You'll see that it's got
a built in reflection.
I'm not too into that reflection so
I'm going to go ahead and look at the
reflection inspector and turn it on.
I don't need a background on it.
Let me go and select it.
Go ahead and turn off the reflection.
It's got the little built in page
dots as well for doing navigation
as you would expect in iOS.
Those are completely impossible to
see so I'm going to go and change
that to a color that's something
a little bit easier to see.
Good I've done that.
And now this is an image well right.
It's got the little mountain
and the moon or the sun.
It means I can go and
drop images in here.
And the object itself will do some
really interesting things with it.
And it's also as you'll
notice if you double click
on it it'll just click on it.
It's this container view
much like that button was.
And so it's got a lot of smarts
that are associated with it.
It's got this concept of multiple
cells that I can navigate through.
The user navigates through these
when they swipe but as a designer
I can navigate through here using
the right and left arrows and I can
place individual elements within
these cells when the user swipes.
It's not just moving one thing across
and repeating it multiple times.
It's actually giving me this
bucket that I can drop in different
content for each one of these views.
And it's got the little gear here.
I can add and delete, move things around.
So that's the view.
Let's go and throw our
content in there real quick.
I've got these history images.
Boom.
Just going to go and drag
and drop them on there.
And then this object is smart
enough that it says oh you went
and you dropped five items on.
This particular flow view only had
four cells when it was first created.
And so it went and created
one for that final one.
And like I said if you don't like it
you can go ahead and go and delete it.
But it went and spread those
images across the various cells.
So now if I don't like the placement
I can go and arrange them here.
But what's really most interesting
is the fact that I can do other
things within this container.
So once I'm drilled in within one of
these cells well then I can go and grab
objects and do other things as well.
So I've got my image here and
I want some text about it.
I believe that was smoke signals.
[Transcript missing]
"Stretch it out, right,
so I've got complete editing
capability within here.
Copy and paste it.
And it had some other text in here.
Resize things how I like, lay it out,
spell it correctly.
"Spell it correctly, resize it to fit,
and then you'll see when
I navigate through these cells
that the content goes with it.
And I can go through and do the
same thing to all of the cells.
And I can drag other things.
It doesn't just have to be labels
and images into these cells.
I can drag carousel
views or video elements.
This could be a swipe through
various trailers for a movie perhaps.
So it's got a lot of
high-level functionality.
And if we go and we simulate it now,
You'll notice when I tap on the banner,
it takes me right into that
page that I was last editing.
I don't have to go all the way
through the menu structure.
And now it's got that capability.
And if I was previewing it on the device,
I would be able to swipe
with my finger there.
It's all built for you.
Menu takes me back, and boom,
I'm good to go.
Now one quick thing to
show you is the fact that
Back here, these pages, I said,
these buttons,
each one that you see here is
actually hooked up to a button here,
even though these are proxies.
And there's some intelligence
that you'll see that this
particular page was named blank,
but if I go and I call it history,
for example, it should update the button
to say the right thing.
And now this particular
button is history.
And as I go and add the other templates,
it's going to do the same thing.
So they can stay synchronized in
that sort of way really easily.
Now, if I go and I rename the button,
give it something completely different,
it will preserve whatever
name I associated with it.
But the page name will stay the same.
So it's helping you out,
but it's not getting in your way.
Let me just quickly go and
build out this other page.
This page was a map.
So I'm going to choose the map template.
It's in portrait mode.
And you'll see that it went and
grabbed the default background that
I selected earlier at the project level.
So that's great.
If I double-click in to view the details,
well,
this isn't the kind of font I want in
order to stay in line with my demo.
I want to use CoachIn there.
I've got my little button.
I want to make sure that
it's It's my button style.
That's great.
And this map plugin's
got a lot of smarts.
It already has all the
mapping tile capability.
All I really need to
do from a customization
perspective is give it a pin.
I don't want the default
red pin that gets dropped.
I want my brand or
whatever to be the pin.
And so I've got this little
telegraph pin that we've created.
And you can see that it's sort
of off-center from the center
of the bullseye there where the
point's actually going to be.
And that's because images,
we don't necessarily know where
the center of your image is.
And so it's up to you to go and align it.
And you do it through twizzling these
little selectors here and setting
the offset position to exactly just,
you know,
where it looks right on the screen.
And so that looks about right.
So now my pin is centered.
I can go and drag some other
assets in here to make it look
A little closer to what
the demo here looked like.
I can go and change the order.
I can send the text or the layers back
and front just by selecting the various
objects and the right mouse clicking on
it allows you to play with the Z index.
My button's all hooked up because
it was given to me by default.
And let me go ahead and simulate.
Take a look here.
It'll go and load my banner.
Again,
I'm working on a page that's further in,
so you see I get the
automatic map experience.
There's that button
asking me for permission.
The ad name is automatically there.
It'll drill in.
It'll use the default pin
locations that are built in,
which are basically locations
of Apple retail stores,
but you can go and provide a list
of lat/longs to the tool as well,
and we'll drop pins in
the right places for you.
The menu's all hooked up.
Takes you right back.
So, it's pretty sweet.
A lot of functionality
without a lot of work.
What do you think?
[Transcript missing]
and you can embed a map as you
saw in that particular demo.
And this is what the code looks like.
So like I said,
you can go into iAd Producer,
you can use our buttons and
our widgets to go and do this,
but you can also call these
things programmatically.
And so here's an example of what it takes
to go and save something in the calendar.
It's incredibly straightforward.
Basically,
you go and you define the event
information associated with the event,
the various details, begin, end date,
some descriptive information,
and then you call present composer.
And then the operating system
will take it from there.
It'll show the standard
calendar event creation widget.
The user is very familiar with that.
So they'll go in and they'll say, "Oh,
yeah,
I do want this thing on my calendar."
They'll choose their particular
calendar and take it the next step.
And there's a callback there.
So within your ad,
you'll also know whether they
hit the done button and actually
went through the process or if
they hit cancel and jumped out.
And so if that's something that you're
keeping track of within your ad,
you can do that as well.
So it's device integration,
but the key point is it's
never exiting back out,
out of the developer's
application or out of the ad.
These sheets to either send
an SMS or send a mail or get
something on the calendar,
they come up on top of the ad.
When the sheet goes away,
they've added it to their calendar.
They're still right there
within the application.
They haven't gone anywhere.
So these are the core technologies
that you're going to use whenever
you're doing any sort of development.
And the way that you basically
add custom code to your project
is in a couple different ways
that I'll go through real quick.
First and foremost,
if you've got existing JavaScript files
or JavaScript files you've created
as subclasses of our objects,
you can just go and
import those as assets.
The same way I drag that folder of
images and such into the project,
you can drag in your JS files.
You can drag in your CSS files.
You can also combine your own
custom JavaScript and CSS files
into an incredibly powerful thing
called an IAD Producer plugin.
And the Producer plugin allows you
to go and basically take a component
that you've written as a developer
and drop it into IAD Producer and
expose to a designer that doesn't
really want to see your code and that's
a lot of high-level functionality.
So maybe you've subclassed the carousel
view to make it tilted and make it
spin in a different sort of way.
If you wrap that within the plugin,
it means the designer can go, "Oh,
let me drag in this horizontal
carousel." They'll drop it in
and through the plugin API,
you can also expose over on
the right-hand side all of the
inspectors to go and set the
various properties that you expose.
They don't have to go and
look at any of the code.
They can play with the tilt or
whatever you've exposed as the
properties on those objects.
So these are incredibly powerful
and a great way to go and extend it.
You can also do some inline programming.
All of the elements that are controls
within the ad that you're building out,
if you right mouse click on
them like a button for example,
there are events that are fired
when a user taps on those.
If you've got some JavaScript that
you want to fire at that particular
point when the user taps on a button,
you can go ahead and throw it inline.
All you do is choose a particular
event that you want to hook into,
paste your code in there,
maybe you call to an external function
that's in a JS file that you imported,
that's another way to go and
add your own functionality.
And of course I mentioned earlier on
there's a debugger that's there and
so as you're writing your custom code,
if there's an issue that
happens while you're running
through it within the simulator,
boom,
it's going to stop on a break point or
it's going to stop where the error was
and give you quite a bit of feedback.
So I've got a quick demo for
going and doing the custom code.
So what I'll do next was that last page
that we saw in the Hudson Telegraph demo,
and that was the adding a field where
a user could go and type in some text,
and then they shook the phone in order to
go and convert that text to Morse code.
And so when I imported
all of these demo assets,
you might notice over on the right-hand
side there's this morseconverter.js
file that I imported in there as well.
And if I open it up and I look
at the contents of this file,
it's got a lot of comments at the top.
But if I get down into
the real meat of it,
you'll see it's got basically an
array of characters and then the
equivalent in Morse code of those
characters in dots and dashes.
And the most interesting thing of this
function of this particular code that
I've pulled in is this convert text
field function that's here down below.
So when the user clicks
on the text field,
it's going to be able to see the
text field that's here down below.
So when the user shakes the phone,
it converts the field that's
being passed to this particular
function into the Morse equivalent,
basically looking at the
characters and converting it.
So that's what we're
going to go and call.
And so let's go and build
up this page really quick.
I'm just going to choose a blank page.
In portrait mode,
get the default background,
get my button there, go to the inspector,
"Make my button pretty like
the rest of the buttons." Boom.
Piece of cake.
Got a couple assets
here to go and drag on.
Little background for the canvas.
[Transcript missing]
I'm just going to go and type
some text in here just so I don't
have to type it on the simulator.
Hello iAd.
Great, I've got that there,
all nicely aligned, looks good.
Oh, that's not aligned.
[Transcript missing]
I can go and save that modified
one as a new style or I can say,
"No, I want all my buttons
to have that shadow,
but I'm not going to do that now."
So this is a button control and if
I go and I right mouse click on it,
then you see that I've got various events
that are fired when this is tapped on.
The one I'm going to plug
into is the touch-up inside.
This means the user tapped their
finger down within the button
and then they lifted the finger
while it was still over the button
versus dragged out and then lifted,
which is sort of a cancel.
So I'm going to go and use the
control touch-up inside and you'll
see it brings up a code window.
And so I'm in a JavaScript editor and
I can do really interesting things
here like have this conversion happen.
You'll see what's really interesting
here is that the comments are
actually valuable and placed
here for you at the get-go.
You'll see that it basically shows you
how to go and create local variables,
how to access a global variable if
you've got one defined somewhere else.
You can look at the center
of the various events.
If you want to get a
reference to the page,
this is how you go and do it.
For my particular example,
what I want to do is I want to
go and create a global variable.
I want to go and get the content
out of that text field and pass
it off to that convert method.
So I'm just going to go and
copy that text that's there,
paste it in.
So this basically says, "Okay,
for this particular page or
for this button that I'm on,
go and ask for its view
controller." And the view
controller has this outlets array.
So the outlet is basically the
name of the object that I went
and changed for the page name
or for any element on a page.
So the button is an outlet,
the field is an outlet.
Anything that's sitting
there on a page is an outlet.
And this particular array holds a
reference to everything that's on a page.
And so that text field
is called text field.
If I go over and click on it here
and look over in the inspector,
yes, it's called text field.
That's great.
So I'm getting the right one.
And I'm just pulling it out of
that particular array by name.
And so what I'm going to do next is then
I'm going to go and call my code convert.
I'm going to go ahead and add a
new text field and it's a function.
And I'm just going to pass in
that text field call there.
iAd Producer:
I've added code to this button,
if I right-click on the
button the event is selected,
so there's an event
associated with this control.
When the user touches up inside of it,
it should call the JavaScript function
and convert the text.
iAd Producer:
There's other places that you
can hook into events as well,
not just the controls that
you go and drop onto a page,
but there's events associated with the
ad loading and the ad being paused,
transitions between pages.
iAd Producer:
You can hook into an event of a page
coming onto the stage and have an
event that's fired as it goes off.
You can have all sorts of
things laid out there in code.
iAd Producer: The way you see those is
you go up to the code menu,
and here's the object events
for my selected object,
but the page events are here as well.
iAd Producer: Maybe I want to do
some some wizzy layout.
iAd Producer: Before the page appears,
I'd go into this particular
code editor and do it there.
iAd Producer:
The global events are here as well,
and this is where the shake
event actually occurs.
iAd Producer: Shake is a global event,
and if I wanted to hook this
up to the shake functionality,
that's where I go and do that.
iAd Producer: Alright,
so with everything fingers crossed,
well typed, hopefully no typers,
I've got my code in here.
iAd Producer: If we go and hit simulate,
it's going to go and regenerate the ad,
load it within the simulator.
[Transcript missing]
So I've got some custom
JS that I've got in here.
I've also got some custom CSS.
And if you take a look at this file,
it basically has a very simple
keyframe animation set within here.
It looks for a page that's called Try It.
This is the selector up here.
And it looks using that same sort
of outlet mechanism for a particular
element on the page called Phone Image.
And then it applies this
WebKit animation to that.
So a couple things
that I have to do here.
First and foremost is I need to make sure
that my page is named Try It in order
to make sure that's going to get called.
So right now it's called blank.
I'm going to call it Try It.
[Transcript missing]
Great.
Try it to the page.
Phone images the object.
Looks like the selector's right here,
so this is the way it's going to go
and find the element on the page,
apply this particular style,
simple keyframe animation.
Let's go ahead and load
it again in the simulator.
Loads the banner.
Boom.
Take me to the page, and voila.
That little CSS style is applied.
So whatever CSS you might
have in an external file,
this is the way that you
go and apply it as well.
You might have multiple files,
all sorts of different keyframes
that you want to apply to objects.
This is a great way to say,
"You know what?
I don't want to use that
drop-down selector for the
animation that's built in.
I really want to apply my own." You just
basically find the element on the page
and apply the appropriate animation
that you've created out in CSS.
[Transcript missing]